I have a quick question
about an error that I
cause
>> Sure.
>> When I first made it,
I forgot to put the in for loop,
the number dot length minus 1.
And basically it seemed to
cause a stack overflow and
I was wondering I was trying to
figure out why that would cause that.
And I was wondering if you
could give me some idea.
>> Sure, so he's saying he forgot
to put the minus 1 here and
that was causing a stack overflow.
>> That's it looks like, yeah.
>> Because so it means you're inserting
your pivot into the left and right.
It probably means that eventually,
you're gonna run into an array
that's always of link 2, right?
So it's going to keep calling that.
Right array or left array, which is
never gonna hit that base case, right?
Because it's never gonna hit link one,
because those arrays have to get
progressively smaller and smaller.
>> Okay, and why would it be stuck at 2?
>> So
let me see if I can invent an example.
I think if you did this where
your number is equal to
1, let's do 9, 8, 7,
so 7 would be the pivot
And then it would try and
break this down and 7 would always get.
So basically, this would just keep calling
recursively endlessly on 9 and 8, 9, 8, 7,
assuming everything went
into the right array.
Or 9 or so maybe this is better,
Because everything would
always go into the left array.
No, I had a right before okay.
So seven Because this
is not equal to this or
this is equal to this rather everything
would always get put into the right array.
So then it would call quicksort on right
which would always endlessly be 9,8,7.
>> Yeah I have chosen the question
from movement of especially convexity,
and when we call quicksort,
left and quicksort, right,
if we just our wide left and right array,
so we don't create a new one every time.
So maybe it's whatever improve
the spatial complexity.
>> Specifically here, he's asked,
I think you're asking me online set 37,
38 instead of storing these variables,
what if we just overrode them?
The amount that you would affects the
memory would be trivial to the point that
I say it wouldn't matter.
Because sort of left and sorted,
these are actually just gonna be pointers.
They're actually not
gonna be full copies and
pointers are the smallest thing
you can possibly store in memory.
So that would be a optimization that
I don't think would really help you
very much.
Might help a little bit.
But it's like grabbing a bucket
out of the ocean, right?
It's gonna be such a small amount versus
the much bigger things that are going on.
>> I tried to be smart and
use for off instead of for loop.
And I had the same problem
essentially right?
I wasn't removing pivot and
I were just stuck.
>> Yep, so
he's saying instead of using a for
loop he used like the functional like for
each or something like that.
>> For off.
>> For off loop yeah, so a for
off loop here which looks like for
lead item of numbers like this right?
The unfortunate thing about this is, it's
always going to capture the last item in
the array, which means your pivot is
gonna be put into your left or right,
which means that you're gonna probably
end up in a stack overflow situation.
So a lot of just normal for loops.
I know they're not the most
appealing looking piece of code, but
they are extremely useful.
>> Poke the pivots and
use the for off without problem.
>> Yep, so you could absolutely just say,
pivot equals instead of doing this,
he would say const pivot
equals nums dot pop right and
this would actually remove the pivot
from the from the array and
then you could absolutely do a for
of loop here.
That would work great.
Many ways to skin this cat.
>> Can you please walk us through
the time complexity of this code?
>> Yeah, so the time complexity of this
is average case scenario and login.
So let's look down here a unit test case.
So here,
we're gonna put 5 as the pivot and
then, 10,8,6,9,7 are gonna
go on the right array and
then everything else is
gonna go on the left array.
So this is to say every item is going
to be looked at the at least once,
right because we're splitting
it into different pieces.
So let's just say that there's at least n.
So that's where the n part of this is
because we're gonna look at everything at
least once and make comparisons
at least once for everything.
However, when we're doing the yeah, so
when we're putting 7
into the right array and
we're putting 4 into the left array, 4 and
7 are actually never going to
be compared to each other ever.
We're doing this by virtue of the fact
that if we know something is smaller than
4 and we know something is larger than 5,
right?
That means that we can make
the fundamental assumption using
the transitive property.
And I don't know I did air quotes there.
It's literally called the transitive
property in mathematics.
4 must be smaller than 7, right?
So we can use that property of
mathematics to say like cool.
4 and 7 never have to be compared to each
other because I already compare them both
to 5, right?
So that means that we're going to
get these like economies of scale.
So if we do a huge
quicksort on a huge array,
that means that there's a bunch of
comparisons that we never have to do,
as opposed to something like insertion
sort, which where everything has to be
compared against everything else every
single time an average case scenario.
That's why that one ends up
being n squared and this one,
it's average case scenario ends up being n
log n because normally they don't have to
be compared to each other because
we can look at those pivots.
So that's why it ends up as n log n.
>> Yeah, but
there's something I'm struggling with.
How could I get to the login
part from the code?
So I guess maybe mathematically,
help me understand it better.
But yeah, I understand that
it's because it's a divide and
conquer algorithm is getting smaller and
smaller and
we're working with the smaller lists but
getting to that login
just by looking at the code i.e,
I'm struggling with that.
>> Unfortunately there's no and hopefully
answering your question that you have.
Like you there's no hack here for
us to look at and say,
we have nested for loops,
therefore we have n squared,
right, unfortunately, there's not
really a good way of doing that here.
The best indication that you have this is
gonna be log in is that it's recursive.
But still that's that's an indication it's
indicates to you that it might be login.
But it's not necessarily like we saw,
for example that count two or
factorial for example, those are not,
those are just n, right?
They're not login.
So the way that you have to conceptualize
in your head to figure out what the login
is, is that just what I was
telling you before those
diminishing the more items I throw out
this, the less comparisons that it adds.
As we add more we get those
kind of economies of scale.
Once you kind of realize that like you're
using these kind of transitive properties
to avoid making some of the comparisons,
that's where it's gonna say like okay,
this is definitely login right that's the
indication that's the proof that you need
in your head for you to say this
is login because I don't have to
compare everything to everything else.
I don't really know if I have
a more succinct answer than that.
Yeah, it, it's hard [LAUGH] And
like even when I'm sitting there,
like I've messed this up
in interviews as well,
I remember specifically that I messed
this up in a Facebook interview.
So it's not apparent and
it's pretty difficult, right?
Which is probably why they choose
to ask you these questions.
>> Assuming we have some
data set that we know,
a statistical distribution about,
does it make sense to choose
a pivot with outside the data sets?
Like okay, I these are student grades and
I know the they are in
the range of 4200 usually and
the mean value is about 70, so
I can start with 70 without
actually including it.
Just for the first iteration,
does it make sense?
>> So the question is if you have some
knowledge of the distribution and
the average and the median, perhaps,
maybe the medians rather than most,
actually, it's definitely
the most useful thing there.
Would you be better off selecting
something that you know to be a good pivot
that might be outside
of the normal data set.
I guess, yeah,
I can see that definitely being helpful.
And just not including the pivot, right,
cuz the pivot wouldn't be
actually in the data set.
That's only gonna help you for
the first pivot though, right?
And the disadvantage that
we're gonna have here is,
now we have to have a specialized case
that the first level of recursion is gonna
be different than every other
level of recursion, right?
Because at that point, once we go down
into the lower level of recursion,
all bets are off,
we can't use the same pivot again.
>> I was thinking like since we
are already iterating over everything
in the first pass,
maybe while we're sorting it into left and
right parts we could be Just taking
a running average or something like that?
>> So,
>> For the next pivot,
I mean
>> The issue with like, you could always
like, you could write a piece of code to
always select the perfect pivot, right?
But then when you're looking at every
item in the array every single time,
which greatly adds to the complexity.
[LAUGH] So that that in and of itself,
always looking for the perfect pivot,
you're actually ruining what makes
this algorithm efficient at all right?
Which is the fact that you don't have to
look at every item every single time.
In the sense of, yeah, that you would
have to first find the perfect pivot.
Yeah, and then that would kind
of ruin the fact that you,
you had to search through at once to find
the median, pivot and then split it.
I think the thing that points to after
that is like there are more efficient
ways of selecting that pivot.
The one that I'm familiar
again is Quicksort.
Three, we look at the first item,
the middle item and the last item.
And that that mostly solves almost all of
the distribution problems that you'd run
into And that's kind of the one that
people tend to favorite because one,
it's fairly simple and
easy to understand and to it it like,
prevents you from having
worst case scenarios.
But there are some other ways of selecting
that pivot that I'm actually not familiar
with submit one of them might do that.
I just can't conceptualize
a pyramid off the top, my head.
>> So very simple sample just
source 80% of the problem maybe.
>> Yeah, you could still have
the problem where you were always
selecting the top three
items in the array But
the statistical probability of
that is not very large, right?
Cuz if you're always
selecting the bottom three or
the top three items in the array you
still run into the worst case scenario.
Which is not great, but the fact that
you go from doing that frequently
with just one pivot to almost never
if you select three pivots and
then choose the median one.
>> It's kind of complicated
depending on data set.
Maybe there are some
specific cases where just
the guessing a good
pivot would make sense.
But I think what you say covers so
much ground just by itself.
That's what I said, it probably
becomes unnecessary in most cases?
>> Well, and I think another thing that
you might be thinking, you should think
about is if you have that much knowledge
about what your dataset is gonna look for,
or is what it's gonna look like,
quicksorts' probably not the best
choice at that point, right?
It might be like something insertion sort,
cuz if it's already nearly sorted,
then insertion sort is gonna be better.
And if you already know the median,
I guess if you know the median and
you know it's totally shuffled, maybe.
[LAUGH]
>> I mean,
student grades are a good example.
You know the distribution, but
they may come in any order.
>> But at that point,
if it's gonna come in any order
quicksort is already very good at that.
And having the perfect pivot doesn't make
it a whole lot more effective, right?
As long as it's an okay pivot.
It usually works pretty well.